

JUAN IBIAPINA


  ------------------------
  juanibiapina@gmail.com
  Porto Alegre, Brazil
  +55 51 91820304
  ------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Summary

I have 7 years of experience with web development. I have worked in many
different layers of software development, including backend, frontend,
mobile and server automation. My main focus is back end and I advocate
code quality, readability and maintainability. I include tests on my
daily development practice, together with TDD and refactoring.

My main skill is learning, and I like to stretch it in daily challenging
situations. I was lucky to have had the opportunity to join my first
three jobs without knowledge of the technologies involved and have
learned them. I love environments where I can grow, surrounded by smart
and interesting people.

I love to code, and more specifically, I love programming languages and
paradigms. In my free time, I have experimented with many programming
languages and technologies, including SML, Python, Ruby, Haskell, Scala,
Go, Rust, Racket, Bash, Clojure, etc and even my own language, Marco.
I’m also confident working with fast delivery, continuous integration
and many agile ideas. I’m fluent in Portuguese and English and also a
game and music enthusiast.


Experience

Software Developer at Babbel

August 2017 - present

Software Developer at Movinga

Feb 2017 - August 2017

I joined a team of full-stack developers at Movinga and immediately
started working on a micro service and its three client applications. I
was also responsible for starting a couple of frontend applications from
scratch. Later we extracted a pricing micro service from the main legacy
code in order to improve deployment times, frequency (from once every
two weeks to 10 times a day) and provide better insights about our
prices.

Technologies:

-   Ruby, Javascript
-   Grape, React, Redux and other supporting libraries for both frontend
    and backend
-   AWS, Docker

Software Developer at Globo.com

May 2015 - Jan 2017

I joined Globo.com to work on the web media platform team. Our team was
responsible for receiving and encoding videos to be prepared for
internet delivery. We worked on a system that provided both an UI and an
API for uploading videos and metadata. This system was distributed in
more than 50 locations across Brazil, gathering and processing videos
from all partners. We processed more than 2.5TB of videos on a weekly
basis, accounting for more than a thousand hours of content.

Accomplishments:

-   Designed a content protection microservice that integrates with 3
    third party APIs
-   Participated on hiring interviews for most people hired in the Porto
    Alegre office
-   Started an initiative to gather video encoding metrics and better
    understand our system
-   Helped shape the office culture
-   Mentored less experienced developers

Technologies:

-   Ruby, Javascript and Coffeescript
-   Rails and Backbone
-   Ffmpeg and x264
-   Mongo and Redis

Software Developer at Bearch, Inc.

November 2014 - April 2015 _(6 months)_

We developed an anonymous social network. The whole team worked with all
parts of the development, so I had the opportunity to work with a Go
backend hosted on Google App Engine, an Android and an IoS application.
All of these technologies were new to me.

Accomplishments:

-   Shipped a huge amount of features in very little time due to our
    experimental nature
-   Created a pipeline for building and deploying android and IoS apps
    to their respective stores, improving the testing and release cycles
-   Created a camera for Android that worked on more devices than the
    Whatsapp Camera
-   Worked daily with unknown technologies and new challenges

Technologies:

-   Go on Google App Engine
-   Javascript with Angular
-   Android with Java
-   IoS with Objective C

Software Developer at e-Core

March 2013 - November 2014 _(1 year 9 months)_

We developed a single page application for a remote client in New York.
I was hired not only because I knew some of the technologies involved
but also because I was willing to learn the ones I didn’t know. This was
a project that could change very fast.

Accomplishments:

-   Automated the deployment process and reduced the total time from 2
    hours down to 160 seconds.
-   Helped migrate a legacy application from Grails to Rails
-   Experimented with virtual machines, docker and several deployment
    strategies

Technologies:

-   Ruby, Javascript, Coffeescript
-   Rails, Knockout.js
-   Groovy with Grails
-   Puppet, Chef
-   Mongo, Postgres, Redis, Solr
-   VirtualBox, Docker
-   Nginx

Software Developer at Codeminer42

July 2012 - February 2013 _(8 months)_

We developed systems for startups. It was my first experience with
Rails, but also included frontend development. Since each developer was
responsible for managing a whole project, our responsibilities involved
coding, creating interfaces, thinking about user experience, negotiating
with clients, managing infrastructure and deployment, etc.

I was one of the first people to be hired on our branch of the company,
so I had the opportunity to help build the culture we wanted. I learned
a lot from the experience and it helped shape some of my future career
goals.

Accomplishments:

-   Migrated an application from rails 2 to rails 4
-   Helped shape the office culture
-   Developed a project alone from conception to delivery

Technologies:

-   Ruby, Javascript
-   Postgres

Development Consultant at ThoughtWorks

January 2011 - June 2012 _(1 year 6 months)_

Consisted mainly of consulting and web development for the retail
industry, with daily client facing situations. I worked mostly on
maintaining and developing new features for a large legacy Java code
base. Teams were distributed across Brazil, India and the US.

This was my first contact with agile practices. I have learned much from
it, including the importance of pair programming, TDD and Continuous
Integration. I had a mentor that helped me build most of my ideas about
development.

Accomplishments:

-   Started an initiative to improve development and feedback cycles
-   Introduced Javascript unit tests into the project
-   Started a culture of looking into build status
-   Extended the development tools, greatly improving development speed
    and team motivation
-   Acquired the trust of some of the clients, making our work much
    easier
-   Participated on ThoughtWorks University, which changed my life
-   Started learning about interviewing candidates

Technologies:

-   Java and Spring
-   Javascript
-   Ruby for integration tests


Education

Universidade Federal do Piauí (UFPI)

Bachelor of Science (BS), Computer Science, 2004 - 2007


Languages

-   Portuguese (Native)
-   English (Fluent)
